Autometa Theory : 

Automata theory is the study of abstract machines and automata, as well as the computational problems that can be solved using them. It is a theory in theoretical computer science and discrete mathematics (a subject of study in both mathematics and computer science). 
Automata theory is closely related to formal language theory. The term "Automata" is derived from the Greek word "αὐτόματα" which means "self-acting". An automaton (Automata in plural) is an abstract self-propelled computing device which follows a predetermined sequence of operations automatically.
An automaton with a finite number of states is called a Finite Automaton (FA) or Finite State Machine (FSM).(In mathematics, computer science, and linguistics, a formal language consists of words whose letters are taken from an alphabet and are well-formed according to a specific set of rules.) An automaton is a finite representation of a formal language that may be an infinite set. Automata are often classified by the class of formal languages they can recognize, typically illustrated by the Chomsky hierarchy, which describes the relations between various languages and kinds of formalized logic.
The major objective of automata theory is to develop methods by which computer scientists can describe and analyze the dynamic behavior of discrete systems, in which signals are sampled periodically. The behavior of these discrete systems is determined by the way that the system is constructed from storage and combinational elements. Characteristics of such machines include:
Inputs: assumed to be sequences of symbols selected from a finite set I of input signals. Namely, set I is the set {x1, x,2, x3... xk} where k is the number of inputs.
Outputs: sequences of symbols selected from a finite set Z. Namely, set Z is the set {y1, y2, y3 ... ym} where m is the number of outputs.
States: finite set Q, whose definition depends on the type of automaton.

Aho–Corasick algorithm: In computer science, the Aho–Corasick algorithm is a string-searching algorithm invented by Alfred V. Aho and Margaret J. Corasick. It is a kind of dictionary-matching algorithm that locates elements of a finite set of strings (the "dictionary") within an input text. It matches all strings simultaneously. The complexity of the algorithm is linear in the length of the strings plus the length of the searched text plus the number of output matches. Note that because all matches are found, there can be a quadratic number of matches if every substring matches (e.g. dictionary = a, aa, aaa, aaaa and input string is aaaa).


